# An Introduction to this Weblog
## 16-21 February 2026
## Revised 28 February 2026

### The Impetus for Creating This Site
Consistent journal writing has now been a practice of mine for over one year. I believe that I began recording my musings shortly after I discovered the wholesome fulfilment of reading in my free time, for it became clear that the works in front of me were composed of the immortalized thoughts and discourses of their authors. _Cicero: Selected Works_, published by Penguin Classics, comes to mind. Cicero died in 43 B.C. Yet his voice rung sharply in my mind as I engaged with the end product of the iterative process of giving form to one’s principles and experiences. My impetus to journal also came out of an immediate compulsion to fix in place the practical lessons that I had learned or the principles that I had developed with all of their nuances. From attempting to capture the vestiges of incommunicable serenity experienced during a winter hike to grappling with my severe consternations regarding life beyond the public school system, it is perhaps a certain fear of forgetting that continues to underly much of my journaling. Reading the details of journal entries as recent as one month ago affirms that—in some cases—my concerns are justified.

This weblog is not intended to replace my practice of weekly physical journaling. I have often remarked what timeless bliss is brought by writing on paper, imagining the authors that I had read recording their profundities under the light of the sun or of the candle many centuries ago. The productivity standards of modern schooling or work have already significantly increased the amount of time that I find myself in front of a computer screen, so I cherish any opportunity to revert to paper and pencil (my continued preference to print significant readings for college courses is an example that comes to mind). Yet as I have been learning in recent times, this preference for what I deem as more “natural” may exist in duality with an embrace of digital technology. That is, when the computer saves invaluable time at the expense of little to nothing else but a few more minutes of screen time.

This is a principle pertinent to why I now write. Writing has been an indispensable tool to record and process the exponentiated rate of life lessons so far brought by my first year of college studies, including the months preceding it. A Moleskin notebook containing my journal writings since last August now rests on my dormitory desk. Every journal entry I have written thus far has been addressed to a general audience with the mindset that it contains valuable advice. However, my writings throughout this past year have rendered the potential audience of other readers arguably just as important as my future self. It was not until this past weekend that I put serious thought into the accessibility of my journal writing, these contemplations compounded by another entry-worthy realization that emerged.

It is remarked on the Harvard College Writing Program website that Expository Writing 20 will be one of the “most intensive” classes that an undergraduate takes. Perhaps this is reflected in the swaths of time that I dedicated to this course throughout the fall semester, or perhaps that time is better attributed my desire to make the most out of the course. Expos 20 nevertheless strengthened my love for writing in an academic or formal context. Without taking a course that is as writing-intensive this spring, a certain compulsion developed within me. Writing about ideas of sufficient complexity may be akin to exercising the “muscle” of mathematical problem solving. Regular use of this muscle naturally maintains its strength, but one must structure his own exercise within the day if frequent activity is no longer guaranteed. Even if such strengths can easily be restored, my desire to continue writing is better attributed to a certain restlessness to move the metaphorical muscle that Expos 20 had toned. The fulfilment experienced through critical writing is only furthered by the implications of regularly exercising this skill for academic and professional life. It is also true that writing for the potential critic demands revision and a degree of care that the inaccessibility of my physical journaling has largely rendered unnecessary.

What I have remarked as my current restlessness to write is sourced from a much deeper compulsion, however. This weblog is foremost to serve as a visible monument unto God. I cannot here diverge into the spirituality and rationality involved in my convictions in Christ, but I will make note of a recent revelation that may very well encapsulate the purpose of this weblog. If one is to believe in a creator of the universe with the incomprehensible grace of God, all of His works deserve remembrance beyond what the word “remember” can convey.

I only recently began to understand what the word “remember” signifies in the Hebrew Bible after having attended a guest sermon by the author Stephen Mansfield. It pinpoints a degree of internalization that takes time and effort to sustain. The oftentimes elaborate rituals and traditions set forth in the Hebrew Bible for all future generations may be thought of as an assurance of active remembrance. It is easy to dismiss events of enough significance as unforgettable. Yet acknowledgement of that significance can be far from the remembrance that spurs changes in one’s principles and conduct as a result of said event. One will find that these changes are only proportional if he dedicates enough time and thought to remembering an event of enough gravity.

The tendency for humans to become distanced from God in the absence of true remembrance is likewise a recurring theme throughout the Hebrew Bible. However, this folly of forgetting is more generally applicable to what I argue are the memories of His works. This weblog will serve as a means through which my observations, my experiences, and my testimony to He who made it all possible might be visibly displayed. Not only does this memorial exist so that I may revisit what is here written, but—once again—it exists so that others who come upon these works may find something worth remembering.

### A Brief Prognostication for This Site
What I now envision for this weblog will likely evolve as the entries accumulate. That said, new writing should be expected on a fairly regular basis, perhaps as frequent as one significant entry per week. Most entries will not be this long. I will likely attempt to capture an idea or experience that would normally be the subject of my physical journal writings when it comes off as especially striking. I also intend to use this web page format to its fullest potential. Beyond the embedded multimedia that may augment writings, this weblog will serve as a repository for other documents and hyperlinks that I find to be worth archiving. Compartmentalisation of the works herein uploaded may very well become necessary, be it for the survival and agricultural notes that I intend to begin accumulating or for a selection of more analytical pieces that deserve a degree of separation from my personal entries.

The principles intrinsic to who I am will, I hope, soon begin to be captured through this weblog in its totality. The frequency with which I have continued to write out my contemplations on paper has already caused my first-year college journal to capture these fairly well. There exist select pieces of mine from that journal that I intend to upload here as part of an inoculum. These selected works should capture my foundational principles or revelations that I deem to be especially important. Instead of the tedium of manually transcribing these writings, it is my hope that a digital scanning and text conversion software exists to practicably copy these texts to here.

### “Morning Along the Footpath”
There remains only one introductory matter to be addressed. After having solidified my resolution to create this weblog, I knew that it would demand careful thought to find a title that conveys the essence of what the weblog would contain. This is what occupied my mind during much of my run last Saturday morning, whilst I rejoiced in yet another opportunity to enjoy even the sliver of the natural landscape that rests along the Charles River and the Cambridge-Watertown Greenway. Only later that weekend did I realize that the very place in which I found myself that morning offered the answer.

“Morning Along the Footpath” has manifold significations. Simply walking in the natural environment will forever remain one of my most wholesome and dearest-held activities of leisure. Beyond the joys of exploring new trails or of returning to such a timeless environment from the excesses of the twenty-first century, it is in this state when the overwhelming net good of God’s creation may be most tangibly enjoyed. The beginning of every new day is likewise a gift of immense grace. I love to rise in the early morning, commencing my labours with a new vigour as the dawn breaks.

There exists a certain confluence of temporality and unwavering familiarity that the natural environment also brings, something which many of my writings have thus far attempted to capture. The beauty of the shortest month of the year and of the winter season in general has once again been on my mind, something which has only strengthened my resolution to begin this weblog now. When the snow melts and the sounds of birds long unheard trickle into the air, the peculiar joys of February fixed in writing might exemplify how this weblog may serve as tool through which to remember.
